BME To InfluxDB

This Python script is designed to collect gas resistance and environmental data from a BME680 sensor on a Raspberry Pi. The script stores the collected data in an InfluxDB database, allowing for easy retrieval and analysis.
Prerequisites

Before running the script, ensure you have the following:

    Hardware:
        Raspberry Pi with a BME680 sensor and Sense HAT (optional, for display functionality).

    Software:
        Python 3.x installed on your Raspberry Pi.
        Required Python libraries (influxdb, socket, bme680, configparser, datetime, time, and sys). You can install them using pip:

        pip install influxdb
        pip install bme680

    InfluxDB Server:
        An InfluxDB server with a configured database for data storage.


Configuration:

    Edit BME680_config.ini Fill in the necessary information such as InfluxDB server details, sensor settings, and file paths.

Run the Script:

Run the script with the path to your BME680_config.ini file as a parameter:

lua

    python senddata_BME_to_influxdb.py /path/to/BME680_config.ini

    The script will start collecting data and storing it in the specified InfluxDB database.

Display Functionality (Optional)

If you have a Sense HAT connected, the script will also display status messages on the Sense HAT LED display:

    When the script starts, it will display "INITIALIZING BME"
    When the gas resistance burn-in data collection is complete and the main script begins, it will display "BME READY" in white with a scroll speed of 0.5.
    In case of a RuntimeError related to the BME680 sensor, it will display "BME ERROR" in red.

Troubleshooting

    If you encounter any errors, please double-check the connections of your BME680 sensor and ensure it is properly connected to your Raspberry Pi.

    If you receive the warning message Failed to initialise TCS34725 colour sensor. (sensor not present), it indicates that the script is attempting to initialize a color sensor that is not present on your Sense HAT. You can safely ignore this warning.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Author

Commander Crash

